So far in this course we have implemented the
full set of CRUD functionality in our application.
One thing that probably missing is the ability to authorize the question. Because as you can see here any
questions can be modified by anyone else.
To implement authorization in our application
we have two ways of doing so.
First we can using gates and a second we can using policies.
So in this lesson I'll show you the first way.
And the second way will be discussed in the next lesson.
All right let's go ahead and create our new branch
right now
I'll call it
lesson 12
dash a and I'm going to create lesson 12 b in the next lesson because the topic that we will
be discussed is the same which is authorization and we'll see two different ways of doing so.
That's why they named the brands less than 12
dash a
And lesson 12 b instead of lesson 12 and lesson 13
But again it's up to you to name your branch
You can name it it's lesson 12
dash
gates and lesson 12 policies or whatever
OK
Let's go to app providers and open auth service provider now to
write
gates we can jump to boot method and in here we can write a gate by calling gate facade and then call define
this method accepts two arguments
The first one is the name
In this case let's call it update question
And the second argument is a closure contains two arguments
The first one should be used user instance and this instance represented the current user sign in.
And the second one is the model instance that we will otherwise.
In this case question
and inside here we simply match the current user ID with user id of the question
and return it.
This will return boolean value true if both values are match or false
If they are not match now we can simply copy this
and change the name to delete question.
And the logic here is no difference at least for now.
So actually here we can define only one gate and then we can use it to authorize edit or delete
action.
But let's assume that in the future this gates will be a little different.
All right after we have gates defined in here
Now we can use or apply them in our entire application.
First let's apply a word gates in the questions controller and later on we will apply them in our view.
So we're doing this
It will make our application secure both in server side and in client side or in our view.
Now we can go to questions controller
and then here we can use the gate in any actions that we need to authorize.
Let's try that in edit method
here we can say if Gate
gate
allows
update question
to  question instance
so if the current allowed or authorized to update the question
then we'll return the question
dot edit view
Note here that we don't need to pass user instance as we defined in here because laravel will
handle that behind the scene
outside if which means the current user are not allowed will show error by calling laravel abort
helper function
let's say 4 0 3 and the message access denied
let's save all changes.
And now let's try to edit any question that belonging by other user
here we got expected error
Access denied.
Now
if you tried to edit our own question
we will be fine.
Now here we can also say if gate denies update
question so if the current user denied or not authorized to update question
then than here we need to show the error message.
We can simply move the view outside
and move the abort function calling inside.
Actually I prefer to use this way in this case because we don't need to touch our existing code.
This return view if we try again
we'll get the same thing.
Now we can do the same thing to update
and destroy method here we simply copy this
and paste here
also paste in this destroy method and change the gate name to delete question.
Now let's try to delete any question that belonging by other users.
OK we'll get access denied error.
All right
the last thing that we should do is to actually show the edit and delete button
in our view only for authorized user
let's open index blade
php
here we can
authorize this button by saying
if auth user to check whether user has signed in
or not  and then we can chain in
with can method pass the authorization name
as the first argument
and then pass the question instance in the second argument.
So this means if user has signed in and he or she can update the question then edit button will
be shown
and don't forget to close this if statement with endif
let's copy this line
paste  here
And don't forget to change this to the delete question
save that
and reload the page
OK
Now the edit and delete button only appear in our own question and now we cannot modify the question
with belonging by anyone else.
So now that we know how to implement authorization in laravel application using Gates We simply define the
gate in auth service provider and then call it in out of controller's method or in our views. In the
next lesson we'll see another way of implementing authorization using policies.
And before we go to the next lesson don't forget to save the changes to our git repo
so git add all git commit -m
OK
push the current branch
And now I don't want to merge this branch to master branch because as I said I'll show you the second
way of the authorization.
So here I just need to switch to master branch
and I'll create new branch from this master branch.